# Santa Clara County ARES/RACES Packet Forms

This repository contains the definitions of the Santa Clara County ARES/RACES
packet forms, as understood by the
[PackItForms 4.0](https://github.com/rothskeller/packet) software.

Everything in this repository is Copyright © 2026 Santa Clara County
ARES®/RACES.  Send any questions to webmaster@scc-ares-races.org.

The root directory contains several files shared between the various forms:

* This file, `README.md`, is documentation for form maintainers.
* The similarly named `README.txt` is documentation for packet operators,
  displayed to them when they install a forms update.  It should contain a
  dated log of the changes made to the forms since PackItForms 4.0 was released.
* The `SCCoPIFO.launch` file is input to Outpost.  It defines which forms are
  available in the Outpost "Forms" menu, the order in which they appear, and the
  names gives to each in that menu.
* The `updates.json` file is input to PackItForms.  It tells PackItForms what
  URL to visit to look for updates to the forms.  More on that below.
* The `SCCoPIFO.css` and `SCCoPIFO.js` files are the stylesheet and Javascript
  code, respectively, for the HTML versions of the forms (the ones used when
  editing new messages).
* The `definitions.html` file defines a number of custom HTML elements that are
  used in the HTML versions of the forms.

Beyond that, the repository contains a subdirectory for each form type, each
named with the tag used on subject lines for messages of that type.  Note that
this includes both current forms and outdated forms.  The outdated forms are 
retained so that current versions of PackItForms can receive and print messages
sent by outdated systems.

Within each form type subdirectory, there are:

* A `*.pdf` file with the blank form.  Completed forms are rendered by adding
  text, filled bubbles, etc. to a copy of this blank form.  (In rare cases,
  there might be more than one `*.pdf` file.)
* A `*.docx` file with the Microsoft Word source for the `*.pdf` file.  This is
  for form maintainer use and is not included in the distributed forms bundle.
* A `*.form` file for each known version of the form.  These define all of the
  details of the form, and are described more fully below.
* For current forms, a `*.html` file containing the HTML version of the form,
  used to edit new messages of this form type.

## Form PDF Files

Nearly all form types are rendered as form-specific PDF files.  (The exceptions
are Check-In and Check-Out, which are rendered as plain-text messages.)  The
forms bundle contains a PDF with an empty form.  PackItForms renders the
completed form by making a copy of this PDF and drawing text and graphics on top
of it.  (Some outdated forms require a routing slip.  In these cases, the PDF
stored in this repository has the blank routing slip as the first page.)

Usually these PDF files are generated by Microsoft Word from a Word document
that is the source version of the form.  In those cases, the source Word
document is also stored in this repository, although it is not included in the
published forms bundle.  In the case of some older form types, the PDF was
provided to us by a served agency and we do not have a source document for it.

PackItForms draws a footer on each page with message IDs and page numbers.  To
accommodate this, the bottom 0.75" of each page must be blank, or more commonly,
contain static text that we don't mind overwriting.  The actual information
content of the form must not encroach on the bottom 0.75" of each page (or, to
accomodate limitations of most printers, the top, left, or right 0.25").

The PDF files are embedded in the PackItForms executable, so we try to have as
few as possible.  For that reason, when we receive an old version of a known
message type, we generally render it on the PDF for the current version of that
form.  Only when that would cause loss of data — that is, the current version
lacks fields or options that the older version had — do we keep multiple PDF
versions in the forms bundle.  (As of this writing, the only known case of this
is the HAvBed form.)

## Form Definition Files

The `*.form` files in the individual form directories provide all of the
metadata needed for PackItForms to receive and render messages; for the weekly
packet practice system to validate messages; and for the packet CLI to create
and edit messages.  There is a separate `*.form` file for each version of each
form.  The file names are not significant aside from having a `.form` extension,
but in most cases they're named with the same basename as the HTML identifier of
the form type followed by a version number.

Form definition files are line-based files.  Other than blank lines, every line
starts with a keyword, which is then followed by arguments for that keyword.
Arguments are separated by whitespace.  If an argument contains whitespace, it
must be quoted with double-quote marks.  Within quotes, `\\`, `\"`, and `\n`
have their usual meanings; no other escapes are recognized.  An unquoted `#`
starts a comment; the rest of the line is ignored.

At the top of a form definition file, the following keywords are used:

* `addon`: This is the name of the Outpost add-on that the form is part of.  In
  this repository, it will always be "SCCoPIFO".
* `html`: This is the HTML filename that identifies the form type for Outpost.
  Note that the file so named doesn't have to exist; this is just an identifier.
* `version`: This is the version number of the form.  The triplet of `addon`, 
  `html` and `version` must be unique in each form definition file.
* `title`: This is the title of the form in title case (e.g., "Widget Form").
* `indef`: This is the title of the form in prose case with a preceding
  indefinite article (e.g., "a widget form").
* `create`: If present, this indicates that operators can create new messages
  with this version of this form.  This keyword takes one or two arguments.  The
  first argument is the form type tag used on the subject line for the form.  It
  must be unique among all form definitions that have `create` lines.  The
  second, optional (but usually provided) argument is one or two lowercase
  shortcut letters that an operator using the web GUI types in the New Message
  dialog to identify the form type.  If provided, it cannot match or be a prefix
  of any other form's shortcut.
* `subject`: This is the form type tag used on the subject line for the form.
  It is generally provided only in form definition files that don`t have a
  `create` line (i.e., older, non-editable versions of forms).  It allows the
  subject line of received messages to be validated.
* `htmlFile`: This is the filename of the actual HTML file used for editing new
  messages of this form type.  It defaults to the filename on the `html` line,
  so is rarely specified.  An HTML file is needed only for editable form
  versions (i.e., those with a `create` line).  The filename is interpreted 
  relative to the directory containing the form definition file.
* `pdfFile`: This is the filename of the PDF containing the blank form,
  interpreted relative to the directory containing the form definition file.
  If this is not provided, received messages of this type are rendered as plain
  text messages.
* `deftext`: This contains the default formatting attributes (font, color, etc.)
  for text fields rendered on the form.  See "PDF Field Rendering" below for
  details.
* `render_summary`: This is used only for forms that render as plain text
  messages (i.e., forms that don't have a `pdfFile`; currently only Check-In and
  Check-Out).  It describes how to render the message summary portion of the
  subject line of the message.  See "HTML Template Expansion" below for syntax
  details.
* `render_body`: This is used only for forms that render as plain text messages
  (i.e., forms that don't have a `pdfFile`; currently only Check-In and
  Check-Out).  It describes how to render the body of the message.  See "HTML
  Template Expansion" below for syntax details.

Following these keywords comes the definition of each of the fields of the form.
Each definition starts with a `field` line, followed by a set of field-specific
keywords:

* `field`: The `field` keyword that starts a field definition takes one or two
  arguments.  The first is the PackItForms tag for the field, or a "-" if the
  field should not be rendered in transmission of the form.  The second,
  optional argument is the "common field tag" for the field.  These common field
  tags identify fields that the PackItForms software itself acts on in various
  circumstances.  See the "Common Field Tags" list below for details.
* `label`: This is the label of the field, as shown in error messages and in the
  packet CLI.
* `clabel`: This is used only for fields that are children of other fields
  (generally, checkboxes within a checkbox group).  It is an alternate label for
  the field that is used when the surrounding context is clear.  For example,
  the `label` of a checkbox might be "Building Type: Multi-Story" but the
  `clabel` might be just "Multi-Story".
* `type`: This is the field type, defining what sorts of values it can hold.
  See the "Field Types" list below for details.
* `value`: For fields with `type static`, this is the static value of the field.
  For fields with `type join`, it is the format string used to join the values
  of its child fields.  For all other field types, this is the default value of
  the field when creating a new message.  The value can be conditional; see
  "Conditional Entries" below.
* `choice`: This defines a recommended or (for `type restricted`) allowed value
  for the field.  There will be one `choice`, `mchoice`, or `cchoice` line
  for each recommended/allowed value.  For `choice` lines, the entire argument
  string is the value in both human and PackItForms representations.
* `mchoice`: This defines a recommended or (for `type restricted`) allowed value
  for the field.  There will be one `choice`, `mchoice`, or `cchoice` line for
  each recommended/allowed value.  `mchoice` lines are used when the value to be
  shown to humans is different from how it is rendered for transmission.  An
  `mchoice` line has two arguments.  The first is the field value in its
  PackItForms representation, and the second is its value in human
  representation.
* `cchoice`: This _conditionally_ defines a recommended or (for
  `type restricted`) allowed value for the field.  There will be one `choice`,
  `mchoice`, or `cchoice` line for each recommended/allowed value.  `cchoice`
  lines are used when the value may or may not be recommended/allowed depending
  on the current value(s) of other field(s) of the form. A `cchoice` line starts
  with a conditional; see "Conditional Entries" below for details.  After that
  it has the same two arguments as an `mchoice` line.
* `presence`: This defines when the field is allowed to have a value and when a
  value is required.  It can be set to `required`, `optional`, or `blocked`, or
  a conditional expression that evaluates to one of those values depending on
  the current value(s) of other field(s) of the form.  See "Conditional Entries"
  below for details.  If not specified, the default is `optional`.
* `help`: This is help text for the field, provided to operators when editing
  new messages of this type.  It is required for all editable fields.
* `compare`:  This specifies the strategy used to compare the value of this
  field in a practice message to its value in a model message.  It is used by
  the weekly packet practice mechanism.  It can be set to `none` (ignore this
  field when comparing messages) or `exact` (field values must match exactly).
  If not set, the strategy is determined by the field type.
* `pdf`:  This specifies how the value of this field should be rendered in a
  generated PDF.  There may be multiple `pdf` lines for a field if the value is
  rendered in multiple places or different ways.  See "PDF Field Rendering"
  below for details.
* `children`:  For fields that contain other fields, this lists the PackItForms
  tags of the contained fields (which must have been defined earlier in the
  file).  This is used for fields of type `checkboxGroup`, `dateTime`, and 
  `join`.

### Field Types

The following types can be given on a field's `type` line:

* `text`: A simple single-line text field with no special behaviors.  This is
  the default for fields with no `type` line.
* `multiline`: A text field in which multiple lines of text are expected.
* `password`: A text field whose contents are replaced with asterisks when
  displayed.
* `addressList`, `cardinalNumber`, `date`, `fccCallSign`, `frequency`,
  `frequencyOffset`, `messageID`, `phoneNumber`, `realNumber`,
  `tacticalCallSign`, `time`, and `zipCode`: A single-line text field that is
  expected to contain a value of the named type.  Field validation, entry,
  comparison, etc. are tailored for the expected value type.
* `restricted`: A text field whose value is restricted to one of a specific set
  of allowed values, provided by `choice`, `mchoice`, and/or `cchoice` lines.
* `checkbox`: Equivalent to `type restricted` and `choice checked`.
* `checkboxGroup`: This is a parent field that has multiple fields of type 
  `checkbox` as children.  In CLI renderings, all the fields will be output on
  a single line with a comma-separated list of selected values.
* `dateTime`: This is a parent field that has a `date` and a `time` field as
  children.  In CLI input and output, these are presented as one field for
  convenience.
* `join`: This is a parent field.  In CLI renderings, its child fields are
  output on a single line according to the format string in the parent field's
  `value` line.  If the parent field does not have a `value` line, the child
  field values are joined with spaces.  (This is used, for example, to display
  an operator name and call sign on the same line, or a tactical call sign and
  station name.)
* `static`: A field that always contains the same value, specified on the
  `value` line.  This is generally used to render static text on a PDF that
  doesn`t come from the message content.

### Common Field Tags

The following "common field tags" can be listed as the second argument on a
`field` line.  Each one may be used at most once in a form definition.

* `defaultBody`: The default body text specified in the incident configuration
  is injected to this field.  This should be the most prominent or general
  multi-line field of the form.
* `destinationMessageID`: When a delivery receipt is received for a sent
  message, the remote message ID from it is injected into this field of the
  sent message.  Similarly, the local message ID of a received message is
  injected into this field.
* `formDate`: This field will be given a default value of the current date.
* `fromContact`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with the
  `toContact` field of the original message.
* `fromICSPosition`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with
  the `toICSPosition` field of the original message.  In other new messages,
  this field will be populated with the default "From ICS Position" value from
  the incident configuration.
* `fromLocation`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with
  the `toLocation` field of the original message.  In other new messages,
  this field will be populated with the default "From Location" value from
  the incident configuration.
* `fromName`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with the
  `toName` field of the original message.
* `handling`: This value of this field is used when computing the subject line
  of a message.
* `messageDate`: This field will be given a default value of the current date.
* `messageSummary`: The summary portion of the subject line of the message will
  contain the value of this field.
* `messageTime`: This field will be given a default value of the current time.
* `operatorCall`, `operatorDate`, `operatorMethod`, `operatorMethodOther`,
  `operatorName`, `operatorTime`, `receiverSender`: These fields are
  automatically populated in both sent and received messages.
* `originMessageID`: The local message ID assigned to a new message will be
  injected into this field.
* `reference`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with the
  `originMessageID` field of the original message.
* `tacticalCall`, `tacticalName`, `useTactical`:  These fields will be given a
  default value from the incident configuration.
* `toContact`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with the
  `fromContact` field of the original message.
* `toICSPosition`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with
  the `fromICSPosition` field of the original message.  In other new messages,
  this field will be populated with the default "To ICS Position" value from
  the incident configuration.
* `toLocation`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with
  the `fromLocation` field of the original message.  In other new messages,
  this field will be populated with the default "To Location" value from
  the incident configuration.
* `toName`: When creating a reply, this field will be populated with the
  `fromContact` field of the original message.

### PDF Field Rendering

The `pdf` line(s) for a field dictate how it is rendered in a generated PDF.
After the `pdf` keyword, there may be a conditional expression, in which case
the line only applies when the value(s) of specified field(s) meet the
condition (see "Conditional Entries", below).  After that, there will be one
of four keywords specifying a type of PDF annotation:

* `text` means to draw text on the PDF (usually the value of the field).
* `circle` means to draw a filled circle on the PDF (usually to fill in a
  radio button).
* `cross` means to draw a cross on the PDF (usually to fill in a checkbox).
* `box` means to draw a colored rectangle on the PDF.  (This is most often used
  to "white out" unnecessary static text at the bottom of the page so that
  there's room for the automatically generated page footer.)

The `circle` and `cross` entries will almost always have a conditional
expression, since you only want to fill in a radio button or check box if that
field's value so indicates.

After the keyword comes a series of attribute-name, attribute-value pairs.  The
attribute names are all either one or two capital letters.  Which attributes
are specified depends on the annotation type.  The possible attributes are:

* `A` (text): Alignment of the text in the rectangle.  The value has two
  letters.  One letter is one of `TMFBtmfb` specifying the vertical alignment:
  top, middle, first line in the middle, or bottom.  The lowercase versions
  align based on actual text; the uppercase versions align based on the font
  bounding box.  The other letter is one of `lcr` specifying the horizontal
  alignment (left, center, right).  Defaults to `Fl`.
* `BL` (text): Vertical coordinate of the baseline of the first line of text.
  This overrides the vertical alignment specified in `A`.  This will be ignored
  if the text cannot fit in the rectangle while honoring this baseline.
* `C` (text, circle, cross):  Color to draw with, as a six- or eight-digit
  hexadecimal number (RGB or RGBA).  Defaults to 000099 (a dark blue).
* `CL` (text): Whether the text should be clipped to the rectangle.  Values are
  `t`, `true`, `f`, or `false`.  Defaults to `false`.
* `F`, `S` (box): Color to fill the box width and stroke its edge with,
  respectively, in the same format as for `C` above.  Defaults to not to fill or
  not to stroke.  At least one of the two is required.
* `FS` (text): Font size.  Defaults to 12.
* `FT` (text): Font name.  Allowed values are `Times-Roman` (the default),
  `Times-Bold`, `Times-Italic`, `Courier`, `Courier-Bold`, `Courier-Oblique`,
  `Helvetica`, `Helvetica-Bold`, and `Helvetica-Oblique`.
* `L`, `R`, `W` (text, cross, box): Horizontal placement of the rectangle, with
  its left coordinate, right coordinate, and/or width.  At least two of the
  three must be specified, and if all three are specified, L+W=R must hold.
* `LH` (text): Line height, as a multiple of the font size.  Defaults to 1.15.
* `MS` (text): Minimum font size.  If the value of the field does not fit in the
  rectangle at the `FS` font size, it will be shrunk to make it fit, but no
  further than this value.  Defaults to 8.
* `P` (all):  Page number on which to draw.  Defaults to 1.
* `R` (circle):  Radius of the circle.  Required.
* `SW` (box):  Stroke width for stroking the edge of the box.  Valid only with
  `S`.  Defaults to 1.
* `T`, `B`, `H` (text, cross, box): Vertical placement of the rectangle, with
  its top coordinate, bottom coordinate, and/or height.  At least two of the
  three must be specified, and if all three are specified, B+H=T must hold.
* `WR` (text): Whether the text should be wrapped to fit in the rectangle.
  Values are `t`, `true`, `f`, `false`.  Defaults to `true`.
* `X`, `Y` (circle): Coordinates of the center of the circle (required).

Note that PDF coordinates, widths, heights, font sizes, etc. are specified in
points (1/72 inch), and the origin is at the bottom left of the page.  The top
right of a US Letter page in portrait orientation is (612, 792).

For text fields, the `C`, `FT`, `FS`, `MS`, `LH`, `A`, `WR`, and `CL` attributes
can be specified on the `deftext` line at the top of the file, which provides
default styling for all text fields in the form.

### Generating PDF Lines

Several software tools are available to help generate the `pdf` lines for a new
PDF file, but the process is still somewhat tedious.  Here are instructions.

1.  Open the PDF file in an editor and add dabs of color in each of the fields.
    They don't have to fill the field or be precisely placed; they just need to
    be fully inside the field.  Specifically:
  - For text fields that are bounded in black, add a dab of pure red
    (#FF0000FF).  If the field has a text label inside it, add the dab to the
    right of the label if you want the field contents to appear to its right, or
    below the label if you want the field contents to appear below it.
  - For checkbox fields, add a dab of pure green (#00FF00FF) inside the box.
  - For radio button fields, add a dab of pure blue (#0000FFFF) inside the
    circle.
  - For areas that do need precise sizing or placement, add a rectangle of pure
    magenta (#FF00FFFF) in the exact space and size desired.  This can be useful
    for:
    - The printed page number at the bottom of the form, so it can be overlaid.
    - Text fields that are not bounded in black.
2.  Save the resulting file as PNG images, one per page.  600 dpi is recommended.
3.  For each page, run the `make-field-boxes` command (in the
    [packet repo](https://github.com/rothskeller/packet)) on the PNG file, and
    redirect the result to a temp file.  (Use the -p flag to set the page number
    for all but the first page.)  This generates the `pdf` rendering lines
    corresponding to the dabs of color.  In a text editor, transfer the
    rendering lines to the proper fields in the .form file.  The `pdf box` lines
    for the page numbers go in an otherwise anonymous field, i.e., under a
    `field -` line.
4.  Several customizations are available and/or needed:
  - For text fields placed with a magenta rectangle, change the pdf line from
    `pdf box` to `pdf text`.
  - To overlay the printed page number areas, add `F FFFFFF` (i.e., "fill with
    white") to their `pdf box` lines.
  - Sometimes multiple text fields on adjacent lines should be aligned
    horizontally.  Make the necessary changes to the coordinates on the
    `pdf text` lines.
  - For text fields that need unusual alignment within the field, add an "A"
    clause to the `pdf text` line.  Other text styling changes can also be made.
  - For radio buttons, change each `pdf circle` to 
    `pdf if «tag»=«value» then circle` so that the circle is shown only for the
    appropriate value.
  - For checkboxes, change each `pdf cross` to `pdf if «tag» then cross` so that
    the cross is shown only when the field is checked.
  - The radius of the radio button circles can be adjusted if it's not
    aesthetically pleasing.
5.  Run the `show-field-boxes` command on the .form file.  It will generate and
    open a PDF with each of the fields outlined in pastel red.  Make sure they
    are all correct; adjust the PDF render lines as needed.
6.  When text field(s) occur on the same line as text label(s), it looks best
    for the fields and labels to have the same baseline.  To achieve this, run
    the `pdf-baselines` command (in the [PDF
    repo](https://github.com/rothskeller/pdf)) on the .pdf file, redirecting the
    result to a temp file.  (If the PDF has multiple pages, run it once for each
    page, with the -p pagenum flag.) The resulting text file gives the baselines
    for each static text string in the PDF.  For each text field that needs a
    baseline, find the appropriate baseline value in the `pdf-baselines` output,
    and add it to that field's `pdf text` line as a `BL` attribute.  Re-run
    `show-field-boxes` to check proper placement.
7.  Remove the temp files and the `*.boxes.pdf` files generated by
    `show-field-boxes`.

### Conditional Entries

The `cchoice`, `pdf`, `presence`, and `value` lines all support conditional
expressions.  A conditional expression comes immediately after the keyword and
has the form `if «tag» then` or `if «tag»=«value» then`.  In the first case, any
non-empty value of the field with the specified tag satisfies the condition; in
the second case, the condition is satisfied only if the field with the specified
tag has the exact value specified in the condition.

For `cchoice` lines, only one conditional expression is allowed, and the choice
values follow the `then` keyword.

For `presence` and `value` lines, conditional expressions can be chained using
`else`, as in `if «cond» then «value» else if «cond» then «value» else «value»`.
If there is no trailing `else «value»`, the default for the line applies
(`optional` for `presence`, no value for `value`).

For `pdf` lines, multiple conditions can be listed, which are effectively ANDed
together, as in `if «cond1» then if «cond2» then ...`.

## Form HTML Files

The `*.html` files for the various forms are used when editing a new message,
and are integrated with the PackItForms software.  Before rendering them in a
browser, PackItForms modifies them in several ways:

1.  It prepends the contents of `definitions.html`, in the root of the
    repository.  That file contains definitions of custom elements that the
    HTML files can use.
2.  It runs the result through a template engine which expands those definitions
    where they are used.  These expansions also inject the values of various
    variables supplied by PackItForms where they are needed.  See "HTML Template
    Expansion" below for details of the templating mechanism, and "PackItForms
    Supplied Variables" for details of the variables provided to the HTML page.
3.  When editing an existing message, it fills in the known values of the form
    fields.  Even for new messages it fills in some fields, such as the origin
    message ID and the operator identification.

After these modifications, the HTML page is rendered and the operator interacts
with it like any other HTML form.  When the operator finishes editing, the form
is submitted back to PackItForms.

There is no requirement that the HTML files use SCCoPIFO.css or SCCoPIFO.js, or
the definitions in definitions.html.  The use of these shared files helps to
maintain consistency but is not essential for correct operation.  See "SCCoPIFO
Shared Files" below for details of the facilities provided by these shared
files.

### HTML Template Expansion

Text nodes and attribute values in the HTML can contain `{{variable}}`
constructs. These are replaced with the value of the named variable.  Variable
names can be any sequence of characters not including whitespace or a close
brace, and not ending in "++".

In an element tag, if an attribute setting contains a variable reference, and
the attribute's value is empty after variable expansion, the attribute setting
is removed.  Otherwise, any preceding settings of the attribute in the same
element tag are removed.  This means an element tag like
`<div attr="foo"attr="{{bar}}">` will give `attr` the value of `bar` if it is
set, and thestatic value "foo" otherwise.

The `{{variable++}}` construct, used when the variable's value is an integer,
increments the variable's value after expansion.

Element tags can also contain `{{variable}}` constructs (possibly with increment
mark). They are shorthand for `variable="{{variable}}"`.

Custom element templates can be defined using `<def:template-name>` and then
later expanded using `<template-name>`.  Attributes specified in the
`<template-name>` element become available as variables that can be interpolated
in the `<def:template-name>` definition.  For example, if the definition is
expanded using `<template-name my-var=foo>`, then instances of `{{my-var}}` in
the definition will be replaced with `foo` in the expansion.  Attributes
specified without a value are set to their attribute name, so if the definition
is expanded using `<template-name my-var>`, instances of `{{my-var}}` in the
definition will be replaced with `my-var` in the expansion.

Attributes specified in the `<def:template-name>` element are ignored.  By
convention, they act as documentation of the variables that the template uses,
with their values being short descriptions of their usage.

Within a template definition, several additional constructs are available.

* A `<slot>` element is replaced with the contents of the template reference
  element.
* The contents of an `<if:variable>` element are rendered only if the named
  variable has a non-empty definition.
* The contents of an `<ifnot:variable>` element are rendered only if the
  named variable is empty (or unset).
* A `<for:variable>` element assumes that the named variable is a
  semicolon-separated list of values, and renders its contents once for
  each such value.  The value is available within that rendering as
  `{{.}}`.  Each value has whitespace trimmed before use.  If the variable
  contains nothing except whitespace, or is not set, the contents of the
  `<for:variable>` are not rendered.

### PackItForms Supplied Variables

When rendering a form HTML file, PackItForms supplies the following variables
that it can use (and in some cases, must use):

* `assets`: The URL prefix that should be used to reach any of the assets in
  the form repository.  For example, to use SCCoPIFO.css, the HTML file would
  contain something like
  `<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{assets}}/SCCoPIFO.css">`.
* `submit-url`: The URL to which the form should be POSTed.
* `submit-label`: The label for the submit button.  (This is different in
  Outpost usage vs. standalone or manual usage.)
* `save-label`: The label for the save button, which should not be shown if this
  is empty.
* `show-addrs`: Set (to "true") if the form should contain "ToAddr" and
  "FromAddr" fields.  These are needed in standalone and manual operation, but
  not used in Outpost operation.
* `addon-name`: Name of the Outpost addon responsible for this form.  For forms
  in this repository, that is always "SCCoPIFO".
* `form-html`: HTML filename that identifies the form type.
* `form-version`: Version number of the form.
* `pdf-url`: URL to the (blank) PDF file associated with this form type.  (This
  already has `assets` in it; no need to add that again.)

In addition, there is one variable for each tagged field whose first `pdf` line
is a `pdf text` line.  That variable is named `w-«tag»`, and contains a
`width:###rem` setting suitable for interpolation into the `style` attribute of
the `<input>` element for that field.  It will cause the field width to match
the width of the PDF rectangle, presuming that both are also configured with the
same font and font size.  If the field is `type multiline`, the variable will
also contain a `height` setting, suitable for the `style` attribute of a
`<textarea>` element.

### SCCoPIFO Shared Files

definitions.html contains the following custom elements that can be used in form
HTML files (and probably should, for consistency):

* `<packet-form>`: A wrapper around the entire packet form, providing submit
  controls, error reporting, etc.
* `<form-roo>`: A wrapper around the form-specific contents.  It provides the
  radio-operator-only sections at the top and bottom.
* `<form-dthtf>`: Provides the county-standard date, time, handling, to, and
  from section that usually appears at the top of the form.
* `<combo-box>`: Provides a combo box: an input control that allows entry of
  any value, but has a drop-down menu for common or preferred values.
* `<jurisdiction-box>`: Provides a combo box seeded with the names of the Santa
  Clara County jurisdictions.
* `<hospital-box>`: Provides a combo box seeded with the names of the Santa
  Clara County hospitals.

SCCoPIFO.js contains implementations of these classes that can be applied to
various HTML elements:

* `cardinal-number`, `date`, `frequency`, `frequency-offset`, 
  `nonzero-cardinal-number`, `phone-number`, `real-number`, `time`, and
  `zip-code`: Establishes validation and (in some cases) auto-correction on
  input fields that are supposed to contain values of specific types.
* `required-group`: Enforces a restriction that at least one checkbox within the
  tagged group is checked.

SCCoPIFO.js also implements these custom attributes:

* `required-if`: Enforces a restriction that a value for the field is required,
  but only if the condition specified in the attribute is satisfied.  The
  condition can be either a form control name, in which case the form control
  has to have a non-empty value, or a a form control name, an equals sign, and
  a value, in which case the form control has to have that exact value.
* `else-disallowed`: In combination with `required-if`, disables the field and
  does not allow a value for it if the `required-if` condition is not satisfied.
* `allowed-if`: Enforces a restriction that a value for the field is allowed
  only if the condition specified in the attribute is satisfied; otherwise the
  field is disabled.  The condition syntax is the same as for `required-if`.
* `hidden-until`: The tagged element will be hidden, and all controls within it
  disabled, until the condition specified in the attribute is satisfied.  (The
  tagged element does not get re-hidden if the condition stops being satisfied.)

SCCoPIFO.js provides the following additional functionalities:

* Handling of all form controls in the `<packet-form>` custom element.
* Period ping requests sent to the server to keep it alive while editing is in
  progress.
* Shift-click on a radio button to uncheck it without checking another.
* Initial focus on the first invalid form control.

SCCoPIFO.css provides styling that can be used by form HTML files, including:

* Everything needed by the custom elements defined in definitions.html.
* Standard appearance of input labels and controls (including when invalid).
* `layout-grid`, `layout-pair`, `layout-horizontal`, and `layout-vertical`
  classes for arranging items.
* `pair`, `subgrid`, `border`, `colgap`, `padlr`, `basealign`, `colspan#`, and
  `rowspan#` helper classes.
* `section`, `section-inline`, and `subsec` classes for standard headings in
  forms.
* `annotation` class for less important text on labels.

## Building and Publishing a Forms Bundle

After making changes to the form definitions, follow these steps to roll them
out:

1.  Move your changed files manually to the forms directory on a test system
    (C:\PackItForms\Forms on Windows, $HOME/.local/shared/packet/forms
    elsewhere) and test them.  Repeat as needed until satisfactory.
2.  Update the README.txt file in this repository to describe your changes.
    This will be shown to operators when their systems auto-update with the new
    forms.
3.  Commit your changes to the github repo.  This ensures they will not be
    overwritten when the software is updated.
4.  M make a ZIP file of everything in the SCCoPIFO directory, _except_ this
    file and the `*.docx` files.  You can do this with the command

        rm -f SCCoPIFO.zip ; zip -r SCCoPIFO.zip * -x "*.docx" "*.md"

5.  Use the `sign-forms` command (available from the software maintainer) to
    sign the zip file, creating the SCCoPIFO.forms file.
6.  Post the SCCoPIFO.forms file at the location identified in `update.json`.
